# Introduction to Chain Core

Chain Core is enterprise-grade software used to operate or participate in a blockchain. A blockchain, also known as a distributed ledger, is a new type of financial database that makes database records operate like transferable financial instruments. We refer to these records as digital assets. Unlike a traditional financial database, where one entity is responsible for updating the balances for all participants, a blockchain gives direct control of digital assets to the participants themselves. Each participant maintains a set of private keys that secures their digital assets on a blockchain. When they wish to transfer digital assets to another participant, they must create a ledger update, known as a transaction, and sign it with their private keys. Once the signed transaction is submitted to the blockchain, the ownership of the digital assets is immediately and permanently updated for both participants.

Similarly, the initial issuance of digital assets onto a blockchain is controlled by cryptographically signed transactions. Each issuer maintains a set of private keys that are required to issue a specific type of digital asset. A digital asset can represent any unit of value that is defined by the issuer. From governments currencies, to corporate bonds, to loyalty points, to IOUs, to internal deposits, Chain Core issues all digital assets into a common, interoperable format.

Whether the participants on a blockchain are individuals, companies, or systems, and whether asset transfers span countries, companies, or even divisions within a single company, a blockchain offers a secure, trustless way to issue, manage and transfer financial assets.
